hello everyone and welcome to your eetu
task of the week for IELTS my name is
Alex and I'm one of the expert teachers
here at e2 language comm today we are
going to be looking at IELTS writing
task 1 mix charts so as you know in this
part of the test you might have a line
graph a pie chart a process a table and
sometimes you have a combination and
that's what we're going to look at today
firstly we'll analyze an academic task 1
then I'm going to write 3/4 of the task
and at the end I'll show you where to
find the complete answer let's get
started with academic task 1 so you're
always going to get these same
instructions you should spend about 20
minutes on this task summarise the
information by selecting and reporting
the main features and make comparisons
where relevant right at least 150 words
now this part of the test is worth one
third of your total writing score so you
should have spent more than 20 minutes
on it because you need that time in your
task 2 so let's have a look at the
rubric the pie chart shows the
percentage of carbon dioxide co2 emitted
by the six biggest polluters in 2015
while bar graph shows the top six images
per capita in the same year sounds a
little bit complicated doesn't it
sometimes in our live classes we like to
predict the information that we're going
to see in the chart of course you don't
do this on test day but it's a really
good way when preparing because it helps
you to see the bigger picture there's a
danger in academic task 1 of getting
fixated in the details or lost in the
details you have to show the examiner
that you can see the bigger picture
sorry let's do this together
first of all let's think about the six
biggest polluters I'm Australian and I
know that my country produces a lot of
carbon dioxide we mined for coal and we
burn coal to create electricity so I
reckon that Australia
is probably one of the six biggest
polluters what do you think about your
country do you think you're gonna be in
the top six so let's have a look at the
graphs and I've removed the country
names here so that we can really focus
on the important features let's start
with the pie chart on the Left this is
showing us the global cam ducts and
emissions in 2015 and it's in percentage
we can see the rest of the world
produced 34% of the global amount here
this is one country and it produced
almost the same amount as this probably
dozens and dozens of countries which
country do you think it was could it be
Australia or could it be your country
another country down here also produced
a very large proportion turning to the
bar chart now we're not looking at
percentages here we're looking at co2
emissions per person in metric tonnes
that's why this goes up to 18 metric
tonnes and we're actually going to see
the country's name so this represents
how much carbon dioxide the average
person in that country generated in 2015
and we can see that four of the
countries generate a very similar amount
here do you think these countries were
the same as these countries do you think
this could be Australia it could be your
country well let's have a look and here
is the full task now we can see that
this country which emitted 31 percent of
the global emissions in 2015 was China
and the USA was second so China produced
the most US a second and then the other
big polluters were India Russia Japan
and Germany in terms of emissions per
person however Saudi Arabia was number
one and this is interesting because
Saudi Arabia was not among the highest
emitters in the pie chart
we've also got Russia and the US
over here which were in the pie chart
but Australia Saudi Arabia Canada and
Korea South Korea emitted a lot per
person but maybe not enough to put them
in the top six of the global emissions
now of course there are probably lots of
reasons for that lots of reasons why
those countries emitted a lot however in
task 1 we don't need to get into that
kind of speculation so we don't need to
explain we just need to describe and we
do that in three basic ways this is how
we structure the task 1 we have an
introduction where we rework the summary
then we have a little paragraph where
our overview where we describe the main
trends stages or differences and key
features so we present and highlight the
important features here and we use data
like numbers or percentages so in
today's task I'm gonna write key
features paragraphs for each of the
graphs now I should mention that there
are a lot of different ways to put
together your academic task 1 at e2 we
always follow the same structure because
it just eliminates the decisions that
you have to make on test day you don't
need to reinvent the wheel when you're
writing an academic task 1 but of course
there is a lot of information out there
it's easy to get overwhelmed just keep
in mind that the examiners are marking
your work according to criteria there
are some things that you have to do for
example you have to give a clear
overview and you have to include data
besides that in terms of the structure
there is some flexibility it's up to you
of course we recommend following our
structure because it's so simple so let
me show you how this task is going to go
I'm gonna write the introduction first
and basically that just involves
rewriting the rubric up the top here in
red now it's a pretty complicated rubric
and a fairly complicated pair of graphs
I'm gonna write a really simple
introduction for this one because the
rest of my task will be quite
complicated
here we go the two charts
compare data about the biggest carbon
dioxide produces by country and per
person in 2015 super simple now I'm on
to the overview in the overview I just
want to point out some of the main
features the key features I don't want
to mention any specific data or details
here so I'm looking first at the pie
chart the global emissions in 2015 and
very clear to see that China and the USA
produced almost half of the world's
emissions so this is definitely a
significant feature on the other side
Saudi Arabia produced the most per
person so I'm gonna put this into one
sentence overall it is clear that
although China and the USA generated
almost half the world's emissions in
that year the highest polluters on an
individual level was Saudi Arabians I
also want to mention here the fact that
although China and India were big
polluters actually were not accounted
for in the individual basis or on the
bar chart so interestingly despite being
in the top three emitters globally the
developing nations of China and India
were not among the highest co2 producers
on a per person basis so those two
sentences are covered the key features
here and you'll notice that there's no
numbers no percentages
however I've shown the examiner that I
get it I can see the significant
features here perhaps in your overview
you would include something different
and as I said that's fine everybody's
task one will be a little bit different
as long as you have an overview I'm
gonna write two little paragraphs here
one dealing with each graph we've
already mentioned how the graphs relate
to each other in the overview so it's
fine to separate them here and also the
first graph is talking about percentage
and the second graph is talking about
metric tons so it would be difficult to
talk about them in the same
paragraph here we go according to the
pie chart 31 percent of the global co2
emissions came from China in 2015
followed by 17 percent produced by the
USA India Russia Japan and Germany
accounted for approximately one-fifth
and the rest of the carbon dioxide came
from all the other nations of the world
and that's it for the pie chart I've got
some data in there 31 percent 17 percent
i've given fraction 1/5 says no need to
mention every single piece of data but
you do need some data the final
paragraph is going to deal with the bar
chart this is how I would begin that
paragraph in terms of the emissions per
person but rather than finish it off I'd
like to offer you the challenge can you
write the rest of this task 1 in the
comment section below use this sentence
start up and finish it off remember to
include data in your description of
course if you want to see my full sample
you can find it on our blog blog e to
language comm and you can download it
there so this is the 3/4 of the task one
that we've written today have a go at
finishing it off and see if you can
comment on other people's and help them
as well
come along to our live classes and you
can write along with me and some of our
other IELTS experts you can find us at e
tu language comm you can also find a
huge IELTS preparation course there you
can submit your speaking and writing for
feedback book or one-on-one tutorial
come to the live classes or catch up
with our recorded classes
well that's it from me I hope that was
helpful I'll see you next time on our
eetu task of the week
[Music]